in this video I'd like to keep working
through our example to show how a neural
network can compute complex nonlinear
hypotheses in the last video we saw how
a neural network can be used to compute
the functions X 1 and X 2 and the
function X 1 or X 2 when X 1 and X 2 are
binary that is when they take on values
in 0 1 we can also have a network to
compute negation that is to compute the
function not x1 let me just write down
the weights associated with this network
we have only one input feature X 1 in
this case and the bias unit plus 1 and
if I associate this with the waste plus
10 and minus 20 then my hypothesis is
computing this H of x equals sigmoid of
10 minus 20 times X 1 so when X 1 is
equal to 0 my hypothesis will be
computing G of 10 minus 20 times 0 which
is just 10 and so that's approximately 1
and when X is equal 1 this will be G of
minus 10 which is therefore
approximately equal to 0 and if you look
at what these values are that's
essentially did not x1 function so to
include negations the general idea is to
put a large negative weight in front of
the variable you want to negate if this
minus 20 multiplied by x1 and that you
know that that's the general idea of how
you end up getting x1 and so in an
example that I hope you really figure
out yourself if you want to compute a
function like this not x1 and not x2 you
know what part of that would probably be
putting large negative weights in front
of x1 and x2 but it should be feasible
to get a neural network with just one
output unit to compute this as well
right so this logical function not x1
and not x2 is going to be equal to 1
definitely if x1 equals x2 equals zero
right so this is a logical function this
is not x1 that means X 1 must be 0 and
not X 2 that means X 2 must be equal to
0 as well so this logical function is
equal to 1 if enemy of both X 1 and X 2
are equal to 0 and hopefully you should
going to figure out how to make a small
neural network to compute this logical
function as well
now taking the three pieces that we have
put together that is the network for
computing X 1 and X 2 and the network
for computing not x1 and not x2 and one
last network for computing x1 or x2 we
should be able to put these three two
pieces together to compute this x1 x0 x2
function and just to remind you if this
was X 1 X 2 this function that we want
to compute would have negative examples
here and here and we have positive
examples there there so clearly this you
know will need a nonlinear decision
boundary in order to separate the
positive and negative examples let's
draw the network I'm going to take my
input plus 1 x1 x2 and create my first
hidden unit here I'm going to call this
a to 1 because that's my first hidden
unit and I'm going to copy the weight
over from the red Network the x1 and x2
networks and minus 30 20 20 next let me
create a second hidden unit which I'm
going to call a 2 2 that is the second
hidden unit of layer 2 I'm going to copy
over the cyan network in the middle so I
have to wait 10 minus 20 minus 20 and so
let's throw in some of the truth table
values for the red Network we know that
was computing the x1 and x2 and so this
will be approximately 0 0 0 1 depending
on the values of x1 x2 and for a2 to
this design Network whether we know the
function not x1 not x2 that outputs 1 0
0:04 the four values of x1 and x2
finally I'm going to create my output
note my output units that is a 3-1 this
is what will output H of X and I'm going
to copy over the old Network for that
and come on either plus 1 bias unit here
so draw that in and I'm going to copy
over the weights from the green network
so that's minus 10 20 20 and we know
earlier that this computes the old
function so let's throw in the truth
table entries for the first entry is 0
or 1 with only 1 then X 0 or 0 which is
0 0 or 0 2 0 1 or 0 and that was 2 1 and
thus H of X is equal to 1 when either
both x1 and x2 are 0 or when X 1 and X 2
are both 1 and concretely H of X L plus
1 exactly at these two locations and it
outputs 0 otherwise and thus with this
neural network which has a input layer
one hidden layer and one output layer we
end up with a nonlinear decision
boundary that computes this xnor
function and the more general intuition
is that in the input layer we just have
raw inputs then we had a hidden layer
which computed some slightly more
complex functions of the inputs that is
shown here slightly more complex
functions and then by adding yet another
layer we end up with an even more
complex nonlinear function and this is
the sort of intuition about why neural
networks can compute pretty complicated
functions that when you have multiple
layers you have your relatively simple
function of the inputs to the second
layer but the third layer can build on
that to compute even more complex
functions and then the layer after that
can compute even more complex functions
to wrap up this video I want to show you
a fun example of a application of the
neural
well that captures this intuition of the
deeper layers computing more complex
features I want to show you a video of
that come from a good friend of mine
John McCone yond is a professor at New
York University at NYU and he was one of
the early pioneers of neural network
research and sort of a legend in the
field now and his ideas are used in sort
of all sorts of problems and
applications throughout the world now so
I want to show you a video from some of
his early work in which he was using a
neural network to recognize handwriting
to do handwritten digit recognition
you might remember earlier this clause
spelled as house I said that one of the
early successes of neural networks was
trying to use it to read zip codes to
help us do to help us send mail also in
repost buckles so this is one of the
attempts one since one of the algorithms
used to try to address that problem in
the video that I'll show you this area
here is the input area that shows a
handwritten character shown to the
network this column here shows a
visualization of the features computed
by some of the first hidden layer of the
network and so the first hidden layer
you know this visualization shows
different features different edges and
lines and so on detected this is a
visualization of the next hidden layer
it's kind of harder to see how to
understand the deeper hidden layers and
that's the visualization of what the
Knicks in there is computing on the prey
of a hard time seeing what's going on
you know much beyond the first hit in
there but then finally all of these
learned features get fed to the output
layer and shown over here is the final
answer is the final predictive value for
what for what have written digit the
neural network thinks that is being
shown so let's take a look at the video
Hey
so I hope you enjoyed the video and that
this hopefully gave you some intuition
about this also pretty complicated
functions neural networks can learn in
which it takes as input this image just
takes us input the raw pixels and the
first thing they're confused some set of
features the Nixon they're confused even
more complex features and even more
complex features and these features can
then be used by essentially the final
layer of logistic regression classifier
to make accurate predictions about what
are the numbers that the network sees